In order to build/run our app (PIKUP) you will need to install the following software distributions and accounts:

Java SDK 1.6+
 Android Studio 2.3
  Firebase (see section below on Firebase)
   Android device or Android Emulator (can be installed through Android Studio) Github account.
    www.github.com

If you don’t have a Github account already, you will need one to access our project.
 Creating one is easy and free.
 You will also need Java 1.6 and Android Studio 2.3.

Once you have created a Github account, the link to our project is https://github.com/neopane97/PIKUP.
 Make sure you choose to Download or clone project and then choose to Download zip folder.
  When the download has completed, open the containing folder and select the file.
   Right click the file and choose to extract all.
    Make sure to note the file path in the dialog before you extract.
     Once the files have extracted you will need to open Android Studio.

After downloading and installing Android Studio 2.3, when you open Android Studio there will be a welcome dialog.
  You should choose import project from the list of selections.  From the file hierarchy that shows, navigate to the pikup-master folder and select it and choose OK.

When Android Studio opens, the project will build and sync.
  Once that is completed you will need to make sure that Firebase is installed.

Firebase is a service provider that provides a real-time database.
  Pikup makes use of this database to store user photos and account information.

To install Firebase to your Android Studio API follow the following steps:
Open Android Studio.
Choose Tools from the bar at the top of the screen.
Choose Firebase.
Choose the option to install Firebase Real Time Database.

Once Firebase installation has completed, you will be able to run the project.
If you connect an Android device to your computer via USB, you can run it from there, or you can create a virtual device using Android Studio’s AVD manager.
 Steps to create a virtual device are listed at the end of the README.
   Once you have connected either a physical device or a virtual device you can proceed to run the app.
    From the main toolbar, choose run, run app, and it will build and run the app.
      Choose the device to run the app from the dialog box that shows and run the application.

Creating a virtual device in Android Studio 2.3.

With Android Studio open:

Choose Tools from the toolbar at the top.
 Choose Android from the drop down list.
  Choose AVD manager from the second drop down list.
   From the Android Virtual Device Manager window that pops up, choose to create a virtual device.
    *Choose an appropriate phone profile (we chose Nexus 4) and then choose next.
     *Select an appropriate system image (we chose Android 7.0) and then choose next.
      Leave the defaults on the last page and choose finish.

*Any configuration will work, we have coded the app to run of all of them.
